This type of project allows for editing tiles/blocks/chunks, level
layout, and object layout for Sonic 2.

Type setting is 2. Zone and Act IDs should be set to the Zone/Act this
level will occupy when it is inserted into the game. Those values assist
in managing data such as object def subentries. The Object Def file
listed should contain the data for the objects used by the game that
this project will be inserted to. The Object Def filename listed in this
file SHOULD NOT have an extension. The program adds the extension itself
to build the Object Def filename and it's art file's filename, and if an
extension is already present, the filenames will become invalid and will
not load. All other filenames listed in this file should contain their
full name, including the extension.

Required data are all three tile sizes, level layout, object locations,
ring locations, miscellaneous object locations, palette (which are usually
split into "main" and "level" palettes), the angle array, the collision
map array, it's rotated counterpart, and the current level's collision
map index listings for both of the level solidity paths.

"Miscellaneous objects" in the case of Sonic 2 are the special bumpers
for Casino Night Zone, the invisible sub objects placed over triangular
level tile shapes. They are not normal object placement objects. If the
level being edited does not include these bumpers, simply use the word
"NONE" (without the quotes) instead of a filename, and "Miscellaneous
Objects" will be ignored.

Palettes are loaded by specifying how many colors are in the requested
palette file, and which palette index to begin inserting them at.
"Underwater" or other "accessory" palettes may be loaded by loading a
palette file into indicies 64 through 127.

An example is as follows. Please replace the data given in this example
with the appropriate data required to load the desired files:





Type: 2

Zone ID:    0
Act ID:     0

Object Def: s2obj

8x8 Tiles:     tiles.bin

16x16 Tiles:   blocks.bin

128x128 Tiles: chunks.bin

Level Layout:  level.bin

Objects:       object.bin
Rings:         ring.bin
Misc:          misc.bin

Palettes-

 Number of files: 2

  Palette 1-

   Start index:        0
   Number of entries: 16
   File:              mainpalette.bin

  Palette 2-

   Start index:       16
   Number of entries: 48
   File:              levelpalette.bin

Angle Array:             Curve and resistance mapping.bin
Collision Array:         Collision array 1.bin
Rotated Collision Array: Collision array 2.bin

Collision Index 1: path 0 collision index.bin
Collision Index 2: path 1 collision index.bin

-EOF-