Included in this package are premade "Project Files" for the filesets created
by the Nemesis Sonic 2 and Hivebrain Sonic 1 data splitting files. Each set
needs slight adjustments to work properly with SonED2:

Sonic 1 - Green Hill's tiles were split into two sets when the game was
          created. They must be merged into one set for use with SonED2. This
          involves decompressing both files ("Nemesis" compression, it is
          suggested that this be done with "The Sonic Data Compressor"),
          copying the data from the second file onto the end of the first
          file, then recompressing the single file. Also, to use this new
          file in Sonic 1, the "Pattern Load Cue" for Green Hill must be
          altered so that it only loads the one tile set instead of looking
          for two. The filename expected by the project file is
          "GHZ Merged Patterns.bin", in the "artnem" folder.

Sonic 2 - The original data split file copied both normal and rotated
          collision maps to the same file, when they should be managed
          separately. A modified version of this file is included with
          SonED2 to correct this. The file also contains information to
          split the data for Casino Night Zone's bumpers, which wasn't
          previously included. These two modifications are NOT directly
          supported by Nemesis' modified game file, so the game file must
          be modified to accept this data, and the Merge file must also
          be modified to insert the data properly.

To use these files to extract the data from a ROM, place a Sonic 1 (USA) ROM
named "S1.bin" into the Sonic1 Folder, or a Sonic 2 ROM named "S2.bin" into
the Sonic2 Folder, and run "split.bat". Data will then be extracted from the
ROMs into individual files, ready to be edited. After editing, the data may
be placed back into a ROM by hand or by other means. Those who are not
familiar with using extracted data in this manner would benefit from
searching the internet for more information.