                          SonED2 Level Editor

The Level Editor is used for editing the layout of normal gameplay levels.
Levels are built by placing "Chunks" onto the level grid with the cursor.
"Chunks" are either 256x256 pixels or 128x128 pixels wide and tall depending
on the game they came from, and are built from 16x16 "Blocks", which are
built from 8x8 Tiles. They are built through use of the Tile Editor.

The status display in the Level editor shows the following information:

Screen Position - The X and Y position of the top-left corner of the screen,
                  shown in hex as with the in-game debug.

Plane Size - The Width and Height of the current plane, measured in chunks,
             shown in hex.

Current Chunk - The currently-selected chunk. This chunk is displayed as the
                cursor, and will be inserted into the level when "drawing"

Chunk at Cursor - The ID of the Chunk that is currently placed at the level
                  position under the cursor

Solid ??? - This entry describes which of the two solidity paths is being
            drawn over the level, and whether or not the corresponding angle
            values are shown

Objects ??? - This entry describes how the objects are currently being
              displayed relative to the high/low planes of the level

Scroll Speed - The number of pixels that the screen will move when the arrow
               keys are used



Listed below are the Level Editor functions:

Drawing to the level - To draw the currently selected chunk into the level,
                       click the left mouse button after moving the cursor
                       to the desired position.

Toggling "Loop" tile - In Sonic 1 type games, "loops" are kept track of by
                       an array stored in the program that holds two Chunk
                       IDs per level, specifying which two Chunks can act
                       as "loops". "Loop" Chunks in this game type should
                       be stored once with solidity traveling up the right
                       side, and then visually identical copy stored in the
                       immediately following Chunk with solidity traveling
                       down the left side. The Chunk must also be "flagged"
                       within the level layout. To do this, hover over the
                       Chunk and press Spacebar. A Chunk who's ID reads
                       greater than 0x80 (in "Chunk at Cursor) is "flagged",
                       and one that reads less is not flagged. The ID that
                       should be entered into the array (manually) is the
                       Chunk's real ID plus 0x80 (128). This does not apply
                       to Sonic 2 type games, as they use a dual-path method
                       rather than swapping Chunks

Selecting A Chunk - To select a chunk for drawing, use the A and Z keys to
                    cycle through the list, right-click the map to "pick up"
                    the chunk that is under the cursor's current position, or
                    use the "Chunk Selector" in the Tile Editor.

Moving around the level - To scroll around the level area, use the arrow
                          keys to scroll by the "scroll value", or use the
                          scrollbars surrounding the window. In full-screen
                          mode, moving the mouse pointer to the edges of the
                          screen will also scroll. When used in conjunction
                          with the arrow keys, the speed will double.

Resizing the level - Holding CTRL while pressing the arrow keys will change
                     the level size. Left and Down increase Width and Height,
                     Right and Up decrease Width and Height. (This is level
                     data size, not gameplay boundary size)

Other modes - The "Editors" menu has options to switch to any of other
              editing modes available to a project using this Level Editor.
              The following keys also have the same effect:

              L - Level Editor Plane A (foreground)
              P - Level Editor Plane B (background)
              O - Object Editor
              I - Tile Editor

Altering scroll speed - The H and N keys increase and decrease the number of
                        pixels that the screen will scroll when using the
                        arrow keys or moving the mouse to the screen edges
                        in full-screen mode.

Viewing Controls - The following keys affect other viewing options:

                   Q - Disable Solidity viewing
                   W - Display Solidity Path 0 Over Level
                   E - Display Solidity Path 1 Over Level (Sonic 2 and above)
                   R - Toggle angle view when viewing solidity path
                   T - Change object viewing status:
                       -Disabled
                       -Below High Plane (Game View, some objects "hidden")
                       -Above High Plane (Objects on top, total visibility)
                   Y - Toggles the "Low" plane on or off
                   U - Toggles the "High" plane on or off

Translucent Cursor - The chunk cursor can be made translucent by selecting the
                     "Translucent Cursor" option in the "Editor" menu, so that
                     the tile currently placed at the cursor's position shows
                     through the tile that is currently selected for drawing.
                     This option may only be toggled in Windowed mode because
                     it determines whether or not full-screen mode uses a high
                     color setting. Turning on this option and then switching
                     to full-screen will allow translucency in full-screen mode,
                     however, leaving this option off will cause full-screen
                     mode to use 8-bit color, which is faster.