                          SonED2 Object Editor

The Object Editor is used for editing the layout of the objects within the
normal gameplay levels. Objects are placed within levels by full X and Y
pixel offsets (coordinates), and also contain a type value, and one or more
property values/bitfields, as well as a few generic flags, all of which
determine how the Object is displayed and how it behaves. The images and
descriptions displayed in the editor are set up through "Object Listing"
files that tell the editor what to display for the object, how to display
it, and the layout of the property bitfield, how it's handled by the editing
keys, and what text to display for each value. The files can be altered to
expand on the data that is already included by making use of the instructions
provided in the Object Listing files themselves.

The status display in the Object editor shows the following information:

Screen Position - The X and Y position of the top-left corner of the screen,
                  shown in hex as with the in-game debug.

Plane Size - The Width and Height of the current plane, measured in chunks,
             shown in hex.

Solid ??? - This entry describes which of the two solidity paths is being
            drawn over the level, and whether or not the corresponding angle
            values are shown

Objects ??? - This entry describes how the objects are currently being
              displayed relative to the high/low planes of the level

Scroll Speed - The number of pixels that the screen will move when the arrow
               keys are used

Snap-To-Grid - This value is the object grid size. Objects being moved by the
               cursor will only move in steps of this many pixels. This is
               useful for making sure certain objects are aligned properly

Total ??? - These are the total number of each type of object that are placed
            within the level. "Objs" refers to standard game objects within
            the Object Placement list, "Rings" refers to Ring objects placed
            within the Ring Placement list (if applicable), and "Misc" refers
            to special type objects that reside in their own listings (such
            as Sonic 2's Casino Night Zone bumpers)



The following status elements are only available when the cursor is hovering
over an object:

Object Position - This is the object's position in the level, expressed in
                  hex as in the game

Object Type ID - These are the full values of the object type, it's
                 "Paramater"/"Property" value, and it's flags value

Object Type - This is a small text description of the object's type

Bits - This is a bitfield representation of the "Paramater"/"Property" value

Param Field ? - If bitfields are defined for this object type in the Object
                Listing file, these fields appear to describe the meaning of
                the value stored in that bitfield

Draw Dir - Describes the direction in which the object will be drawn (whether
           it is mirrored and/or flipped)

Unknown Flag - This flag appears in Sonic 2 type games. This entry specifies
               whether this flag is on or off, but it's function is unknown

Remember Sprite State - If this flag is on, any changes made to an object
                        during gameplay (such as destroying a badnik) will
                        remain in effect throughout the duration of the level.
                        If it is off, the object will return to it's starting
                        state when it leaves the screen



The following status elements are only available when the cursor is hovering
over a ring, if rings are stored differently than normal objects:

Ring ??? - This entry specifies whether the ring object is a row or a column,
           and how many rings it will create

Size Value - This is the property value stored in the ring layout data that
             causes the effect described by the above information



The following status elements are only available when the cursor is hovering
over a "misc" object:

??? - This text describes the type of "Misc" object

Type Value - This is the property value assigned to the object



Listed below are the Object Editor functions:

Moving an Object - To move an object that already exists, click and drag the
                   object to it's new location. The object will move along
                   the grid set up by the "Snap-To-Grid" seting. If that
                   setting is 1, the Object will move freely

Adding an Object - To add an object to the level, double-left-click any empty
                   position in a level, and a "null" object will appear, which
                   can be changed into any other type of object. In games who
                   list rings separately, double-right-click any empty position
                   in the level to create a new ring. To create a new "Misc"
                   object, hold ctrl while double-left-clicking.

Removing an Object - To remove an object of any type from the level,
                     double-right-click it, and it will be destroyed

Selecting Object Type - To select the type of an object by using the Object Type
                        Selection List, double-click the desired object. When the
                        list appears, scroll to the description of the desired
                        object type and left-click. To exit the list without
                        changing the object's type, right-click instead.

Object Properties - Object properties may be directly altered by whole value by
                    using the following keys:
                    A/Z - Object Type
                    S/X - Object "Property"
                    D/C - Object Flags
                    Pressing these keys alone changes the value by 1, but holding
                    ctrl will change the value by 16

Object Bitfields - When an object's "Property" value is actually a group of values
                   stored as 1, it can be broken into "bitfields" representing
                   each individual value. There can be up to 8 bitfields depending
                   on how large each one is. To modify the value in a bitfield,
                   press it's corresponding number key (the field's ID + 1, IE:
                   field 0's key is 1) to add 1. Hold ctrl while pressing the key
                   to subtract 1.


Object Flags - All Objects have 4 generic flags, which are slightly different from
               game to game. Sonic 1 style games seem only to use 2 of them, for
               drawing direction. To change the drawing direction of an object, 
               press 9. Holding ctrl will cycle through in reverse. Sonic 2 type
               games use all 4. To modify the "Remember Object State" flag, which
               causes destroyed objects to stay destroyed, press 0. To modify the
               "unknown" flag, hold ctrl while pressing 0

Other modes - The "Editors" menu has options to switch to any of other
              editing modes available to a project using this Level Editor.
              The following keys also have the same effect:

              L - Level Editor Plane A (foreground)
              P - Level Editor Plane B (background)
              I - Tile Editor

Altering scroll speed - The H and N keys increase and decrease the number of
                        pixels that the screen will scroll when using the
                        arrow keys or moving the mouse to the screen edges
                        in full-screen mode.

Altering Grid Size - The J and M keys increase and decrease the size of the
                     Object "Snap-To" grid

Viewing Controls - The following keys affect other viewing options:

                   Q - Disable Solidity viewing
                   W - Display Solidity Path 0 Over Level
                   E - Display Solidity Path 1 Over Level (Sonic 2 and above)
                   R - Toggle angle view when viewing solidity path
                   T - Change object viewing status:
                       -Disabled
                       -Below High Plane (Game View, some objects "hidden")
                       -Above High Plane (Objects on top, total visibility)
                   Y - Toggles the "Low" plane on or off
                   U - Toggles the "High" plane on or off

